property and model releases is a grey
area for most of us
there are a few things you need to avoid
when photographing for pocketstock
such as logos and trademarks brand
names and profanities
even if you have a model release for
superbad girl you still can't show her like
this
drinking her favorite branded refreshment
let's take a look at model releases and property
releases in more detail
the rule for model releases is really
quite simple
you need to have a signed model release
for every recognizable person in every
shot you take
as well as models this also includes
self-portraits shots of your friends and
also family members
anyone recognizable in fact
for example
here's john and his friend lucy
out and about taking pictures around
london
john is taking some great shots of lucy
and when he gets home he decides to
upload them to his pocketstock account
oh dear john can't upload his
edited images because he needs a model
release
let's start again
this time before he starts taking
pictures of lucy
john gets her to sign a model release
he downloaded this one from the pocketstock
site before he came out
you don't have to use our releases however
once the release is signed john knows that any
good shots of lucy from today can be
uploaded to pocketstock
back to john and lucy who are still out and
about seeing the sights of london
john decides he wants to shoot the
london eye
but hold on a minute
that's just pause here because his is where
john needs to know about property
releases
the rules of property releases are quite
simple
you usually need a property release for any
indoor shots where the interior is
recognizable even if it's your grans
house
for outdoors most public buildings will
not require a property release
if it's a privately owned building and it's the
main subject to your shot
the chances are you will need a property
release
as a rule if you have to pay an entrance
fee to get in somewhere
you will need a release for your images
or if it's owned by an individual or corporation
you may also need one
so back to john and lucy at the london eye
john knows that the london eye is a
privately owned commercial tourist
attraction
if he shoots the london eye on its own
we wouldn't accept it
if it's part of the skyline that's fine
if he takes a picture of lucy in front
of it
that's fine too
john knows what he's doing though and as
you can see in these examples he takes
lots of different shots using lucy in
the foreground
that can all be used without a
property release
for the wheel